# Security

- [Development](#development)
- [Production](#production)

## Development

Currently, as a shortcut during development, the client imports (what should be) a private key from the `common` package and uses it to create the token needed to establish a Renet connection with the server. The server logs a random passcode to the terminal, different each game. This can be shared with any players who want to join the game. The first to join is designated the host, which just means they get to choose the difficulty level, triggering the start of the game itself.

## Production

Clearly this is not sufficient for a public game. In production, my plan is to have an ephemeral private key for each game generated by a matchmaker.[^1] The matchmaker will be responsible for managing game sessions. It will launch game servers in response to HTTP requests and clean them up when they are no longer needed.

In detail: A would-be host will request a game from the matchmaker. If a slot is available (i.e. less than the maximum number of game servers are running), the matchmaker will create a random private key (for decrypting messages from clients) and a reporting token (for identifying itself when it reports back to the matchmaker). Then it will launch an instance of the game server, passing these secrets to it as an environment variables.

Meanwhile, the matchmaker will generate a connect token from the private key and pass this, along with the game's port number and an ephemeral passcode, unique to the game, to the host.

When the host receives this data, they will automatically connect to the game server using the connect token and port number. As this client is the first player to connect, the server will mark them as the host. The host can then share the passcode with friends.

Now the other players can send the passcode to the matchmaker. If it's valid, the matchmaker will reply with the connect token and port. They'll use these to connect to the server, which will admit them provided the token is valid, there's less than the maximum number of players, and the game has not begun yet.

When the host has chosen a difficulty level and sent it to the server, the server will report to the matchmaker, identifying itself with the reporting token. This will allow the matchmaker to update the game's status to "in progress". Once the matchmaker has sent an acknowledgement back to the server, the latter can proceed with the game proper.

[^1]: For the purposes of this document, the matchmaker is just a program for launching games to be played among groups of friends, rather than a matchmaker in the strict sense of matching strangers.
